Iteration works better when the collaboration has rules.
Anthropic found that only thirty percent of conversations told Claude how the user wanted it to interact.
Most people specified the task but left challenge, explanation, and uncertainty behavior implicit.
Set those terms before the first answer.
Tell the AI to push back when an assumption conflicts with evidence.
Ask it to name missing inputs before filling gaps.
Require a brief rationale and the sources or observations that support consequential claims.
Also define how uncertainty should appear.
The AI can separate established facts, interpretations, and open questions.
It can state confidence, show which input would change the conclusion, and stop when a missing permission or source would make continued work unsafe.
Then define acceptance.
A draft is not done because it has all the requested sections.
It is done when it matches the audience, respects the constraints, supports important claims, passes the relevant tests, and makes unresolved items visible.
These instructions do not require a giant prompt.
A compact collaboration contract can fit in four lines: challenge weak assumptions, surface missing context, support important claims, and mark uncertainty.
Add task-specific acceptance criteria underneath.
The contract changes the relationship.
Instead of asking the AI to sound confident, you ask it to make confidence inspectable.
Instead of rewarding immediate completion, you reward an output that helps you see where judgment is still required.
First, tell the AI when to challenge assumptions and ask for context.
Second, require visible grounds, uncertainty, and stop conditions.
Third, define acceptance in terms of evidence and use rather than completeness.